

-- Time of Beginning --
Before two and a half million years ago.

The oldest time Drakes remember, when Irdya was in its natural fiery state.
Creatures native to Irdya thrive in this time; Arkhai (Fire Guardians) in the skies and trolls deep underground.
Drakes and other dragons thrive at Irdya's poles.



-- Time of Fate --
Begins two and a half million years ago.

Cataclysmic cooling of Irdya through the appearance of the enchanted Mists (Will of the Wisp).
Coinciding appearances of otherworldly flora and fauna from elsewhere- saurians, naga, mermish, dwarves, humans, and others.
Fae creatures appear soon thereafter, enchanted into being from these creatures- the woses from trees, the elves from humans, the nix from mermish.
Arkhai greatly diminish in size and power and retreat to fiery sanctuaries underground and near volcanoes. Most Drakes move from the poles to the equator. Trolls begin to surface from the deep.
The warmth siphoned from Irdya by the Mists, along with the siphoned power and anguish of the diminished Arkhai, is coalesced into the Ruby of Fire by the Fae.



-- Time of Legend --
Begins twenty two thousand years ago.

Irdya begins to warm with a slight waning of the Mists, through the feeble yet concerted efforts of the Arkhai.
Drakes come to rule over a great civilization of several races (themselves, Saurians and Dwarves), with toolworks unmatched in all later time.
A second civilization emerges shortly thereafter, of one race (Humans) with a likewise unmatched knowledge of magic, taught to them by the Arkhai.
An Arkhe further teaches the secrets of unlife to this second civilization and the practice of this art begins to consume the magical Mists that shroud Irdya, causing deserts and seas to grow.
Famine leads to a war between the two civilizations, which lasts two thousand years until a drake surrender.



-- Time of Turmoil --
Begins eleven thousand years ago.

Six thousand years of peace ensues, yet the famines grow more frequent as the deserts expand, until the practicers of unlife are too weak to stand against the Fae creatures that rise to defend the Mists.
The victorious Fae creatures then turn against all other races, stirred by the Will of the Fae. Nearly all drakes are swept from the great continent and the dwarves are driven underground.
Finally, a league of drakes, dwarves and humans defeat the Fae creatures on the old continent and drive them into the sea.
They leave behind the Ruby of Fire, captured by the Drake Dominant Morogor.



-- Exile --
Five thousand years ago.

Seeing the harm the Ruby of Fire is inflicting on her forbidden mate, Drake Windshaper Witwegana has one of her gliders take it to a former ally during the war against the Fae, Lich-Lord Sowan.
However the Ruby is intercepted by Lich-Lord Lenvan, whom is already gradually preparing for total war against the living in the millennia of the far future, along with other younger Lich-Lords.
Witwegana sends word to her Morogor of this terrible error and races to confront Lenvan before he carries his new weapon into the underworld for careful centuries-long study.
Knowing she is hopelessly outmatched, Witwegana nevertheless challenges Lenvan to duel, buying precious time for Morogor's Wing to catch up.
Yet Morogor arrives late to find only the lifeless remains of his love. The slim fissures in his mind left by the Ruby are cracked open by the sight.

With the one-in-every-four of drakes loyal to him, Dominant Morogor puts Humanity and its Lich-Lords to the flames of his wrath; a betrayal of the former league of races against the Fae.
Honorbound to act, friend and fellow hero of the war, Enforcer Parapathos challenges Morogor to duel and defeats him, but refuses to end his friend's life, despite the protests of Lich-Lord Jevyan.
Morogor with all his followers are outcast into the sea by the league.
They settle in a distant chain of islands in the center of the Great Ocean, the new Domain of Morogor.

In his anguish, Dominant Morogor forbids the telling of all history preceding the Exile.


