Scenario 7: Kindling

From above the isle of the scuttlers, the keenest eyes in the flight
could see a hint of a great range of mountains to the east and north
over the water, such country as we Drakes love to build our eyries in.
Galun ordered the flight in that direction.

Days of flight later they reached the Great Continent and found
themselves over green forest country.

Vank: There is game in those trees. This may be a good place to hunt.

Galun: Yes.  And the flight needs a night onm the ground to rest its
wings.

Vank: Some of the game has two legs rather than four. They don't quite
look like our Runners, though.  They move better.  And...Galun, I
could swear some of the trees down there are <i>moving</i>!

Galun: I see them.  Well, if they choose to fight us, breath-fire
should burn them nicely.  Call the hunt!

Battle ensues. The map should be a fairly dense section of the Forest
of Wesmere. The enemy side(s) should be elves and woses, allied.

On victory:

Galun: That was brisk.

Vank: Yes, and there are more of the two-leggeds heading at us from 
every direction.  I think I'm undercounting them - they're cursed hard
to spot in these woods.

Galun: Set up a rotating overwatch. We'll feed and rest here until the
overwatch flyers spot more of them within a half-league, then fly
north.

Vank: As you command!

Scenario 8: Lost City

As the flight was nearing the range that men would someday call the
Heart Mountains, they saw from the air a great, derelict city.  But so 
little did we Drakes know as yet of the ways of other speaking peoples
that the flight's eyes scarce knew how to comprehend it.

Galun: Look, ahead of us near the edge of the high peaks.  There's something
big there that looks <em>made</em>. Carved. Could those be buildings?

Vank: Wait...yes, I see it.  How odd; it looks something like a Runner
keep, but bigger. Much bigger. There is worked stone.  And something
about the way it's layed out reminds me of an eyrie.

Galun: Where there's worked stone there may be metal and tools. We'll
need those things.

Exploration and battle ensues. Fendrin needs to write this battle.

Narrator: You can now recruit armored Clashers.

Vank: Metal and tools, indeed. But I wouldn't want to settle here,
it's too low.

Galun: And not stable.  The builders are gone for good reason; sooner
or later, tremors and earth-fire would eat anything we built here.  We go
north, further into the mountains.

Scenario 9: The Storm

And the mountain country seemed to welcome them, until a fierced storm
forced the flight to ground.

Vank: What are those shambling things over there?  They look like
Runners, but much bigger and uglier.

Galun: They're waving clubs and they don't look friendly. 

Vank: And us grounded until the storm lifts...

Galun: Maybe you need to start thinking more like a Clasher, Vank.

Battle ensues against one or more troll sides. The Drakes are
grounded, so their terrain costs are a Clasher's.

On victory:

Galun: We can beat them, and we can eat them. And I like the feel of 
these mountains.  I think we've found a good place to build an eyrie.

Vank: Excellent. The flight will rejoice.  But it's colder here than
Morogor was.  We'll sleep more.

Galun: That's no bad thing, Vank.  With no rival eyries it's best
that we incerease slowly, and draw on the game as lightly as we can.

Scenario 10: The Storm

The Drakes began to carve out a new home with fire and tools.  They
built watchposts, and pens for the breeders, and sleeping chambers.
They hunted the trolls and the beasts of the mountains for meat.

But this harsh country, too, had its inhabitants.  And one day
they came calling.

Thurdakor: Who dares work stone in these mountains wi'out the
leave o' the Dwarves?

Galun: I am Galun, and this is my Flight.  Who gives us
challenge in the tongue of slaves?

Thurdakor: I am Thurdakor of Knalga, and nae slave but a lord of
the living stone. You squat on my surface land.

Vank (whispering): Galun, their weapons look well-made, and we are few.

Galun: Surface land, eh?  Well, here we shall remain. Perhaps
if you keep to your holes we'll have no trouble.

Vank (whispering): Perhaps that could have been put better...

Thurdakor: Keep to our holes? Arrogant one, you shall learn
the bite of Dwarf steel for that taunt.

Battle ensues.  The dwarven side(s) will have gryphon riders.

On victory:

Vank: Those "Dwarves" faught well.  If there are many more of them in these
mounntains I fear for our hatchlings.  

Galun: We'll flee no further. This is a strong, defensible site and
the range around it is full of game.  If the dwarves molest us,
we'll blood our young warriors on them.

Vank: As you command!

